

Implementation of Student Data warehouse 

1.	Initial step in development of student Data Warehouse is Data collection based on the user Requirements Specification. usually it is difficult
to get actual data from any Educational Institution because of Privacy issue in giving data to anyone. In those situations it is preferred to 
go for generating synthetic data so that we won't be much time.

2.	Second step is Preprocessing the data, if the data is synthetic then preprocessing step would take less time than preprocessing the raw data
which is collected from different storage systems. 

3.	Third step is performing ETL operations on the collected data, In general collected data can be in heterogenous format, in those situations transformation operation on the data must be performed in order to have uniform data format and then the transformed data is loaded into the MySql database . Talend open studio for data integration is used for ETL process.

4.	Fourth step is eastablishing connections between Mondrian OLAP tool and MySql databse with the help of JDBC driver. The necessary settings JDBC driver is made inside the JSP pages, which are present inside the Mondiran OLAP engine. It is the most impartant step in developing DW application, if settings is not done properly then there will be no way to proceed further in development phase. 

5.	In order to establish the connections between JDBC driver and Databse is done after writing Catalog(schema) file and then the OLAP operations are applied by writing MDX quries against the generated Schema file.

6.	One should have basic knowledge of writing MDX queries and schema file in order to perform any OLAP operations on the data

7.	After performing the creation of schema file, and establishing the connection between JDBC driver and MySql database, series of MDX queries are applied on the data and respective results would be generated with the help of JSP front end view. and reports can be generated with the help of  drill through operation which has been provided in order to generats reports.

8.	Chart option is provided in order to provide decisin support system for making decisions on the analysed data.

9.	The data can be easily analysed with the help of olap operations such as drill-down and roll-up operations on the dimesions and measures.

10. For generating preferred output that is for performing any analysis on the data, dimensions which contain numeric data should be made as measures and placed on the rows and dimesions which has nomial attributes are placed on the row section.